HCIDOCS-201: Document BIOS and firmware upgrade on BMHs using Redfish (#75946)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/bmo-editing-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource.adoc

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// post_installation_configuration/bare-metal-configuration.adoc

[id="editing-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource_{context}"]
= Editing the HostFirmwareComponents resource

You can edit the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource of a node.

.Procedure

. Get the detailed list of `HostFirmwareComponents` resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get hostfirmwarecomponents -n openshift-machine-api -o yaml
----

. Edit a host's `HostFirmwareComponents` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit <host_name> hostfirmwarecomponents -n openshift-machine-api <1>
----

> <1> Where `<host_name>` is the name of the host. The `HostFirmwareComponents` resource will open in the default editor for your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Where `<host_name>` is the name of the host. The `HostFirmwareComponents` resource opens in the default editor for your terminal.
```
present-tense only

+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not rendering properly with the extra three underscores

// This is included in the following assemblies:
//
// post_installation_configuration/bare-metal-configuration.adoc

[id="editing-the-hostfirmwarecomponents-resource_{context}"]
= Editing the HostFirmwareComponents resource

You can edit the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource of a node.

.Procedure

. Get the detailed list of `HostFirmwareComponents` resources:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get hostfirmwarecomponents -n openshift-machine-api -o yaml
----

. Edit a host's `HostFirmwareComponents` resource:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit <host_name> hostfirmwarecomponents -n openshift-machine-api
----
+

> Where `<host_name>` is the name of the host. The `HostFirmwareComponents` resource will open in the default editor for your terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `HostFirmwareComponents` resource opens in the default editor for your terminal.
```

Suggest using a callout for <host_name> to avoid having this sentence fragment.

  uid: 2038d63f-afc0-4413-8ffe-2f8e098d1f6c
spec:
  updates:
    - name: bios <1>
      url: https://myurl.with.firmware.for.bios <2>
    - name: bmc <3>
      url: https://myurl.with.firmware.for.bmc <4>
status:
  components:
  - component: bios
    currentVersion: 1.0.0
    initialVersion: 1.0.0
  - component: bmc
    currentVersion: "1.00"
    initialVersion: "1.00"
  conditions:
  - lastTransitionTime: "2024-04-25T20:32:06Z"
    message: ""
    observedGeneration: 1
    reason: OK
    status: "True"
    type: Valid
  - lastTransitionTime: "2024-04-25T20:32:06Z"
    message: ""
    observedGeneration: 1
    reason: OK
    status: "False"
    type: ChangeDetected
  lastUpdated: "2024-04-25T20:32:06Z"
----
<1> To set a BIOS version, set the `name` attribute to `bios`.
<2> To set a BIOS version, set the `url` attribute to the URL for the firmware version of the BIOS.
<3> To set a BMC version, set the `name` attribute to `bmc`.
<4> To set a BMC version, set the `url` attribute to the URL for the firmware verison of the BMC.

. Save the changes and exit the editor.

. Get the host’s machine name:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get bmh <host_name> -n openshift-machine name
----
+

> Where `<host_name>` is the name of the host. The machine name appears under the `CONSUMER` field.

Reviewer 2: same comment as previous

. Annotate the machine to delete it from the machine set:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc annotate machine <machine_name> machine.openshift.io/delete-machine=true -n openshift-machine-api
----
+

> Where `<machine_name>` is the name of the machine to delete.

Reviewer 2: see previous

. Get a list of nodes and count the number of worker nodes:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----

. Get the machine set:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get machinesets -n openshift-machine-api
----

. Scale the machine set:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc scale machineset <machineset_name> -n openshift-machine-api --replicas=<n-1>
----
+

> Where `<machineset_name>` is the name of the machine set and `<n-1>` is the decremented number of worker nodes.

Reviewer 2: see previous

. When the host enters the `Available` state, scale up the machine set to make the `HostFirmwareComponents` resource changes take effect:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc scale machineset <machineset_name> -n openshift-machine-api --replicas=<n>
----
+

> Where `<machineset_name>` is the name of the machine set and `<n>` is the number of worker nodes.

Reviewer 2: see previous
